Programs purpose

This program was developed for a school to test its 
8-grade students’ aptitude tested on math, recognizing 
critical information from a given image, spelling, 
listening, and writing.




How to begin exam

Before one can access the program, you must agree to the Terms and
Conditions. This will give you access to the Register menu.

A student must enter his/her ID and school details to recieve a temporary pin.
The ID and School Name must be at least 5 characters long. After entering
ID and School Name, press the 'Generate Login PIN' to receive a message
box popup containing the PIN. Remember it. The PIN expires in 20 minutes.

Pressing 'Reset' will clear all fields.

Press 'Login' to proceed towards login.

Pressing 'Go Back' will return the user to the Register Page.

Entering the Student ID and PIN will allow the user to enter the exam.
The user will receive a warning before entering the exam asking if
they would like to proceed. Pressing 'Yes' will send the user into the
exam. 'No' will close the message box.

After the PIN expires the user can no longer enter the exam and must
register again.



How to answer each test category

After entering the exam, the student must complete five test categories.
They can be completed in any order.

The exam lasts for 15 minutes before completion. Each category also has a 
limited compeltion time.

The exam can be ended early after completing at least one test category.

To begin a test, click on any button. The text on each button will start
that relevant test category.

If the user answers a question correctly they will receive a harder question.
If the user answers incorrectly, they will receive an easier question.

Listening Test:

In the listening test, the user must click the button to listen to the
 sentence(s). Note the accent. Select the correct key words that are 
spoken to answer the question correctly. There are 8 questions.

Pressing 'Answer' after selecting an answer will send the user to the
next question. In some questions, more than one option can be chosen.

The listening test can be ended early, after answering one question.


Image Recognition Test:

The user receives a prompt and must click on a relevant part of the image
to answer the prompt.

After clicking the image, the area selected will appear circled. This can
be reset by clicking the 'Reset' button. Some questions require you to 
click more than once.

Pressing 'Answer' after selecting an answer will send the user to the
next question.

The image recognition test can be ended early, after answering one question.

Writing Test:

In the writing test, the user must write either a simple, compund, or
complex sentence. These require:

Simple: 
     * The first letter of the first word is capitalised.
     * No words contain out-of-place capitalisation (except for first character in each word).
     * There is a full stop at the end of the sentence, and only one full stop.
     * There are no numeric characters used.
     * At least five words are used.

Compound:
     * The existing sentence has been classed as "simple".
     * A conjunction is used.
     * A comma is used.
     * At least ten words are used.

Complex:
     * The existing sentence has been classed as "compound".
     * A relative pronoun is used.
     * A word is capitalised that isn't at the beginning of the sentence.
     * At least fifteen words are used.

Pressing 'Answer' after selecting an answer will send the user to the
next question, unless there is an error in their answer. If there is an
error, they will have 10 seconds to fix their error. If they fix the 
error, they will recieve half marks for the question, else they receive
no marks.

The writing test can be ended early, after answering one question.


Math Test: 

In the Math test the user must answer the question by either selecting
a multiple choice answer, or typing in the answer in a text field.

Pressing 'Answer' after selecting an answer will send the user to the
next question.

The math test can be ended early, after answering one question.


Spelling Test:

In the spelling test, the user must spell positive words starting with
the prompted letter. Words must be more than 3 letters long.

If the user takes too long to respond, a message box will appear with
a hint. If the user then answers correctly, they will receive half marks,
else they receive no marks.

Pressing 'Answer' after selecting an answer will send the user to the
next question.

The spelling test can be ended early, after answering one question.




How to interpret results

After the conclusion of the exam, the user will be brought to a results 
screen. Here the student can see the questions asked for each test 
category and their responses. The number of questions, number of 
questions issued, number of question answered correctly, marks accrued.
contribution to overall mark and time taken for each test is shown.

You can switch between the results for each test category by pressing
the relevantly titled buttons.

The 'Overall Results' button displays the user's marks receives, a 
percentage mark and the number of tests taken.

A bar chart shows the percentage score of the user in each test category.

A line graph shows the difficulty of the question over time for each
test category.







